All right guys so now we're gonna start on the markup for the showcase area where the the navigation
the header all that stuff and we're gonna also style it.
But before we get started with that I just want to mention I'm using the pretty or extension for V.S.
code.
So if I have something that's out of line like put this link way over here and I save it fixes it automatically
because in my settings I have it set to fly format on save.
So if you want this extension you can just click on the extensions here and just search for prettier.
And it's this one right here.
So pretty are code for matter and if you install it and you want it to format on save like mine is then
you just want to go to your settings.
So if you click on the little cog down here and go to settings or you do control karma or command karma
and just search for format on save and it's right here you want this box checked.
Okay if you want that functionality and I just want to mention it because you might see at times when
I save it'll kind of change up a little bit and that that's why it's just it's not changing any of the
code or anything it's just formatting it in a more readable way.
Okay so let's get started down here in the body.
So I'm going to get rid of the H1 and we're going to go ahead and and create the header.
So everything we do right now is gonna be wrapped in a header tag and I'm gonna give it an I.D. of header
dash home.
Now the reason I'm doing head her home is because the home page and the inter pages are very different
in terms of the header and the menu.
So the inter pages are actually going to have an idea of header inter and we're gonna style them differently.
All right.
And then inside here I'm going to put a class of container which is a utility class that will use over
and over to just center content and then let's put our NAV.
And I'm gonna give this an idea of main dash NAV.
Okay.
And then some of these in some cases if you want to use class that's fine.
I'm basically using I.D. for things that are just you know for that single element and then classes
more for utilities.
We're actually going to create a utilities SPSS file which we'll put like the container buttons backgrounds
things like that.
Anything that's basically a utility.
So in here let's put the logo so I'm going to do an image with the I.D. of logo and the source is gonna
be in the image folder and then the logo PMG.
And again I did include the PSAT if you want to edit it and change the initials or anything like that
for all its we'll just say I don't know my portfolio.
OK so let's see under the image we're going to put the U L which is going gonna have the links.
So we'll do a list item.
Let's do an A actually going to give this a class of current since this is the index page.
This is gonna go to index h t email and we'll say home and then let's copy this down four times and
then we're gonna have the about and just going to highlight this class current and hit control D twice
and then get rid of it.
OK so about who's going to go to about h t email we also have work each team L so work and let's do
contact and contact each team.
OK so those are our links now under the NAV we're gonna put let's do our header content in case I'm
going to give this a class of header
dash contents and we're gonna have an H1 and say I am let's do caps.
I am John the.
And then this is where the typed text is going to come in.
So javascript is gonna be used for that.
And again I'm not going to really go over the javascript code.
I do like I said the tutorial is on YouTube.
However we need to put in our span here because this is what the javascript is going to grab on to to
insert that text that type text.
So I'm gonna give this a class of T X T dash type K and we need we're gonna give this some special data
attributes that the JavaScript can basically grab and read from.
So we want a data dash we'll wait and I'm gonna set that to 3000.
So that's basically the time it's going to take in milliseconds after it types you know photographer
or whatever we put and then types the next thing and then it's also gonna take in data dash words and
I'm gonna use single quotes here because this is gonna take in some brackets and then any word that
we want in the type of fact is gonna go in double quotes.
So going to say photographer and put a comma and then we'll do designer if you remake this for your
own portfolio obviously you can change these up and then UI dash you ex Dev.
OK.
So the javascript is gonna grab onto those and and add that type effect.
So under the H1 let's add a paragraph I'm going to give it a class of lead which is gonna be utility
class just to make the font size a little bigger and let's say I specialize in graphic design UI UX
and photography.
OK.
And then the last thing we want in here is in a tag with the class of Beatty and dash light it's going
to be formatted as a button and it's gonna go to the work dot H HTML page and as far as the text goes
we'll just say view my work.
All right.
So save and you can see pretty are just kind of made things look a little more readable it put all these
attributes on separate lines.
So now let's take a look and notice that it's just white because we actually set the body text to be
white.
So the next thing we're going to work on is the CSX or the SAS and we're gonna add that big background
image so that we can actually see the text.
So let's jump in to main dot SPSS and we have the header home the header dash home and then the inter
pages are going to have header dash inner.
So what I'm gonna do is let's say header and we'll do I.D. header.
Now there isn't gonna be an actual idea of header this header home and header inner so in here I'm gonna
use Ampersand dash home.
OK.
And then we'll do canvas Sam Dash enter.
So anything for header home we'll go in here and then enter we'll go down below so for header home let's
do background and we're gonna set that to our variable member we have a variable BMG image which holds
the location of the background image and then we'll do no repeat.
I'm gonna do centre and I'm going to position it right so centre right and then we want it to cover
the entire area.
And as far as the height goes we're gonna take up the whole page so we're gonna do a hundred viewport
heights and then let's just make sure the colours white all right so if we go ahead and save that and
we go back now we can see the image.
Now let's work on this logo because obviously it's it's giant.
So the logo and the nav bar while we're at it let's take a look there inside the header home right.
However we're also going to be using the nav bar and the logo inside header inner.
OK so we don't want to embed it inside either of these or in header because there is no idea of header
so I'm going to put that outside of it.
So right here let's do logo and we'll do main NAV.
OK.
So for the logo let's do let's do a width of 70 pixels.
I should probably put the selector see it's an I.D. So logo with 70 pixels and let's do a height of
70 pixels.
Now you may not want to use an image you may want to use text or it like an H1 with an idea of logo
so I'm also going to add a color of white.
And I'm also going to make it uppercase so text transform uppercase just in case it's not a an image.
So if we save that we take a look.
Now the logo is smaller.
We can see the rest of the content.
Now before we move on to the main Nav let's center this with the container class.
Remember it's there the stuff is wrapped in a container.
Now like I said I'm going to create a utility's SAS file that we can.
Are a partial for things like buttons and stuff like that.
So let's create a new file in the SPSS folder called underscore utilities dot SPSS.
And in here I'm going to put our container class.
Now we have a variable called Web site.
With that we have in the config folder so let's set the max width to a variable of website with all
right.
And then I'm just going to add some padding on the sides.
So let's do one point five REM and then let's do margin auto to push it to the middle and then overflow
hidden.
So nothing goes out of its container.
OK.
And now we need to bring this utilities file in.
So up at the top here after config we're going to bring in utilities and let's save that.
And if we go back now you can see everything is pushed to the middle.
OK.
So let's continue working on the the main NAV which is the basically the logo and the list here.
So let's go back down
and let's see main NAV.
Let's put an I.D. of main the main dash nav OK and we can embed the well the Ally I should say.
Nest we can nest the well.
Ally the link stuff like that.
Now the whole main nav including the logo and everything.
I'm actually going to set this to display flex as I usually would.
I wouldn't use the grid for something like this and then I'm going to justify content with space between
because I want the logo on one side and then the well on the other side.
And let's just do a padding top just to kind of push everything down a little bit.
We'll do one room.
OK.
And then we can embed in here the UL which is also going to be display flex because we want the list
items inside to be flex items.
So let's do that.
Let's do ally and what's nice is we can we can nest all this stuff within the main nav just like we
do in the each team out.
So then it's going to add a little bit of padding here so it's to one room and then one point five on
the sides and then the link.
OK so link I know I did a global text declaration none but I'm going to do it again here.
Same thing with the color.
It's too white.
And I want it to be all uppercase so I'm going to do text transform to uppercase and I'm going to do
a border bottom and this might seem a little weird but I'm gonna do three pixels transparent solid.
Now the reason I'm doing transparent is because I want to have our hover effect when we hover over it.
It gets a line under it.
But if I don't put a border here and I just do it on the hover it's going to basically push the text
upwards to give it the border and I don't want that kind of effect.
They just want the border to just show up.
OK.
So we want to make it transparent at first and then I'm also going to add some padding bottom to zero
point five rim and then I'm also going to add a transition.
So it kind of has a smooth effect.
So we want to transition the board our color because that's what's going to change on the hover.
So we'll say border color zero point five seconds.
OK.
Now I want the hover so inside this a tag or this a selector I should say I can do Ampersand dot I mean
colon hover.
So this will be the hover effect and I'm going to set the border color to the variable medium dash color.
OK.
So that we define that already in our config.
Now I also want the current link to have a border as well so I'm going to do Ampersand class currents
which will be a dot current in the NAV and going to set the border color and let's set that to what
do they call it main color so call we'll do.
Main dash color.
All right so let's save that and we'll take a look.
So it looks pretty good.
So this is this whole thing is the main nav it's flex box and we have space between for the main NAV
and then the UL is also a flex box where each list item is a flex item and you can see the border.
And now when I hover over it it just kind of fades in.
If I didn't do the transparent border to begin with it would just kind of tick up when I hover over
it.
I don't want that.
All right so that looks pretty good.
So let's see.
Let's move on to the.
The header content.
So that basically this stuff right here and then we'll bring in our JavaScript file as well so let's
see.
Let's go down to header and we want to be let's see we want to be within the header home.
So inside here it's a header content sometimes helps just to comment this stuff
header home
all right.
So header content it is a class of header dash content.
Let's align everything to the center so text align center and let's.
I'm going to add a padding top of 20 percent.
Okay.
And then I'm going to take the H one that's inside the header content so we can nest it like this.
I'm going to set the font size to be pretty big I'm going to do for RAM and I'm gonna give it a line
height of one point two.
All right so let's take a look at that.
OK now this right here has a class of B10 light which is going to be a utility.
So let's take care of that.
While we're at it.
So we're going to go into utilities and I showed you this in the last section on how to basically extend
a selector or extend style I'm going to just two buttons and we're gonna create like like a base shared
button style so many use a percent sign and say B10 Das dash shared.
OK so all buttons will share these styles that are gonna be display inline inline block and see some
padding.
So zero point eight REM and let's do two REM and then I want them all to transition on hover so let's
say transition and I'm just gonna do all zero point five seconds we're gonna set the border to none
and let's set the cursor to a pointer.
OK.
Because this is for both buttons and links.
Now down here we're gonna have B10 and I want to add a couple different options here so we'll have a
button main button light and button dark.
So let's do Ampersand dash mean.
So this will pertain to a class of button dash main and we want to extend
the shared button class or styles.
So we want to do percent B10 shared.
So we want to extend all that stuff above.
And then the color for right now I'm just going to set it to set it to a dark color.
But later on work we're actually going to use that set text color function that I showed you guys in
the last section.
So do background color which is going to be the main color so that for right now it's that yellow.
But of course you can change that within the config All right.
And then I'll just grab this copy this down twice and let's make this one the light.
So this will be button dash light.
We're going to extend everything.
We'll keep the dark color here and then the background is going to be the light color.
All right.
And then down here it's too dark
shared button.
We'll put the light color here and then the background is gonna be the dark color.
Now as far as the hover I actually want any any of these buttons to when you hover over it to have the
main color as the background.
All right.
So the way I'm going to do this is let's go outside of this B10 and we're gonna say so for button.
And then here we can actually do like class.
We could do class equals something.
However I want to only include part of it.
Anything that has the Beatty and dash inside the class I want to grab on to so we can put a carrot character
here which is shifts shift and then number six and then equals and we'll set this to just be t n dash.
Okay.
And then we want Cole and hover so any class any button with the class of Beatty and dash anything.
This will this will be in effect for now we also want links with the same thing.
So I'm just going to copy this and we'll do an A tag with that stuff.
Let's also do if it's an input with the class.
So you we'll do input.
Ok so any of these if they're hovered then let's make the background color main color.
OK.
So it just saves us some room here.
Now I'm going to add a couple other utility classes we already use the lead class.
So we want to definitely put that in.
So lead is just going to have a font size of one point three ram and let's add a little bit of margin
bottom as well so we'll do two.
And then I also want to have a text center just to center or something if we want.
So we're just going to set text aligned to center.
All right.
So let's save that and let's go back and take a look and you can see we have our button and when we
hover over it we get that that main color happens to be yellow but we could easily change it in the
config to be any color and this would change this color up here would change.
All right.
So the last thing I want to do in this video is this part here I want to add the JavaScript script so
that this actually works.
And again I'm not going to go over the actual javascript code if you want you can check the tutorial
out.
In fact what I'll do is I'll put a comment in.
Let's see it's go to the index each team all down at the bottom here and I'm going to paste in a comment
to the actual tutorials so we'll say type effect tutorial and then let's just include the script.
So we want to do source to J.S. slash typewriter J S save it.
Go back and it works.
OK.
So the script is the way that it works is it just looks at or is it the span looks at this right here
looks at the wait time it looks at the different words if you want to change up the words you can just
simply change them right here.
All right.
So I think we're good for now in the next video we're going to move on to the next part which will be
what the developer specializes in the different icon stuff like that the creative process with the transitions.
So we will get into that next.